and the Lord said to Moses cut to
tablets of stone like the first ones and
I will write on these tablets the words
that were on the first tablets which you
broke so be ready in the morning and
come up in the morning to Mount Sinai
and present yourself to me there on the
top of the mountain and no man shall
come up with you and let no man be seen
throughout all the mountain let neither
flocks nor herds feed before that
mountain
so he cut two tablets of stones like the
first ones then moses rose early in the
morning and went up Mount Sinai as the
Lord had commanded him and he took in
his hand the two tablets of stone
descended in the cloud and stood with
him there and proclaimed the name of the
Lord and the Lord passed before him and
proclaimed the Lord the Lord God
merciful and gracious long-suffering and
abounding in goodness and truth keeping
mercy for thousands forgiving iniquity
and transgression and sin by no means
clearing the guilty visiting the
iniquity of the father's upon the
children and the children's children to
the third and fourth generation so Moses
made haste and bowed his head toward the
earth and worshiped and he said if now I
have found grace in your sight over
let my lord I pray go among us even
though we are a stiff-necked people and
pardon our iniquity and our sin and take
us as your inheritance
behold
I make a covenant
before all your people I will do
Marvel's such as have not been done in
all the earth nor in any nation and all
the people among whom you are shall see
the work of the Lord for it is an
awesome thing that I will do with you
observe what I command you this day
behold I am driving out from before you
the amorite and the Canaanite and the
hittite and the perizzite and the high
vite and the jebusite take heed to
yourself lest you make a covenant with
the inhabitants of the land where you
are going lest it be a snare in your
midst but you shall destroy their altars
break their sacred pillars and cut down
their wooden images for you shall
worship no other God for the Lord whose
name is jealous is a jealous God lest
you make a covenant with the inhabitants
of the land and they play the harlot
with their gods and make sacrifice to
their gods and one of them invites you
and you eat of his sacrifice and you
take of his daughters for your sons and
his daughters play the harlot with their
gods and make your sons play the harlot
with their gods you shall make no mole
gods for yourselves the feast of
unleavened bread you shall keep seven
days you shall eat unleavened bread as I
commanded you in the appointed time of
the month of a bid for in the month of
Abib you came out from Egypt all that
opened the womb are mine and every male
firstborn among your livestock where the
ox or sheep but the firstborn of a
donkey you shall redeem with a lap and
if you will not redeem him
then you shall break his neck all the
firstborn of your sons you shall redeem
and none shall appear before me
empty-handed
six days you shall work but on the
seventh day you shall rest in plowing
time and in harvest you shall rest and
you shall observe the feast of weeks of
the firstfruits of wheat harvest and the
feast of ingathering at the year's end
three times in the year all your men
shall appear before the Lord the Lord
God of Israel for I will cast out the
nations before you and enlarge your
borders neither will any man covet your
land when you go up to appear before the
Lord your God three times in the year
you shall not offer the blood of my
sacrifice with leaven nor shall the
sacrifice of the Feast of the Passover
be left until morning
the first of the first fruits of your
land you shall bring to the house of the
Lord your God you shall not boil a young
goat in its mother's milk and the Lord
said to Moses write these words for
according to the tenor of these words I
have made a covenant with you and with
Israel so he was there with the Lord
forty days and forty nights he neither
ate bread nor drank water and he wrote
on the tablets the words of the Covenant
the Ten Commandments
now it was so when Moses came down from
Mount Sinai and the two tablets of the
testimony were in Moses hand when he
came down from the mountain that Moses
did not know that the skin of his face
shone while he talked with you
so when Aaron and all the children of
Israel saw Moses behold the skin of his
face shone and they were afraid to come
near him
then Moses call to them and Aaron and
all the rulers of the congregation
returned to him and Moses talked with
them afterward all the children of
Israel came near and he gave them as
Commandments all that the Lord had
spoken with him on Mount Sinai and when
Moses had finished speaking with them he
put a veil on his face but whenever
Moses went in before the Lord to speak
with him he would take the veil off
until he came out and he would come out
and speak to the children of Israel
whatever here being commanded and
whenever the children of Israel saw the
face of Moses that the skin of Moses
face shone and Moses would put the veil
on his face again until he went in to
speak with him
[Music]